absent incremental delegation in unsigned zones with auth support, and ... (#9)
NLnetLabs/incremental-deleg: draft-homburg-deleg-incremental-deleg.md

## Resolver behavior with authoritative name server support {#behavior-with-auth-support}

Incremental deleg supporting authoritative name servers will include the incremental delegation information (or the NSEC(3) records showing the non-existence) in the authority section of referral responses.

> For an unsigned zone, a deleg supporting authoritative cannot return that an incremental delegation is absent (because of lack of an authenticated denial of existence), however with support from the served zone (the zone has an `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` RR provisioned), the authoritative name server can signal support also for unsigned zones (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).

Author: ```suggestion
For an unsigned zone, an incremental deleg supporting authoritative cannot return that an incremental delegation is absent (because of lack of an authenticated denial of existence), however with support from the served zone (the zone has an `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` RR provisioned), the authoritative name server can signal support also for unsigned zones (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).
```

> For an unsigned zone, an incremental deleg supporting authoritative cannot return that an incremental delegation is absent (because of lack of an authenticated denial of existence), however with support from the served zone (the zone has an `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` RR provisioned), the authoritative name server can signal support also for unsigned zones (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).

Author: ```suggestion
For an unsigned zone, an incremental deleg supporting authoritative cannot return that an incremental delegation is absent (because of lack of an authenticated denial of existence), however with support from the served zone (the zone has the Resource Record provisioned `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .`), the authoritative name server can signal support also for unsigned zones (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).
```

If it is known that an authoritative name server supports incremental deleg, then no direct queries for the incremental delegation need to be sent in parallel to the legacy delegation query.

> A resolver SHOULD register that an authoritative name server supports incremental deleg when the authority section, of the returned referral responses from that authoritative name server, contains incremental delegation information.

Reviewer: Maybe we should add:

If a resolver has registered that an authoritative name server supports incremental deleg and resolver receives a delegation without (denial of) an incremental delegation then resolver MUST issue a separate incremental deleg query and MAY register that authoritative server does not support incremental deleg.

Author: Agree, I'll add it

Author: Wait a minute. It already says this in the last two paragraphs of this subsection. Quoting:
> If the resolver knows that the authoritative name server supports incremental deleg, *and* a DNSSEC signed zone is being served, then all referrals SHOULD contain either an incremental delegation, or NSEC(3) records showing that the delegation does not exist.
> If a referral is returned that does not contain an incremental delegation nor an indication that it does not exist, then the resolver MUST send an additional incremental deleg query to find the incremental delegation (or denial of its existence).

Author: @Philip-NLnetLabs can you confirm your suggestion was already in the text?

Reviewer: The part that I wanted to add was 'and MAY register that authoritative server does not support incremental deleg.' I assumed, but did not verify that the other part about sending a separate query was already there. But felt that a bit of redundancy would be warranted in this case.

Author: Well the redundancy is very close to each other. I'll see if I can extend already existing paragraph with 'and MAY register that authoritative server does not support incremental deleg.'

Reviewer: That is fine with me

For example, in {{alias-response}}, both a CNAME and a IDELEG RRset for the incremental delegation are included in the authority section.
The longest TTL must be taken for incremental support registration, though because the TTL of both RRsets is 3600, it does not matter in this case.

With DNSSEC signed zones, support is apparent with all referral responses.

> With unsigned zones, support is apparent only from referral responses for which an incremental delegation exists, unless the zone has an `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` RR provisioned (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).

Author: ```suggestion
With unsigned zones, support is apparent only from referral responses for which an incremental delegation exists, unless the zone has the Resource Record `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` provisioned (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).
```

For example, in {{alias-response}}, both a CNAME and a IDELEG RRset for the incremental delegation are included in the authority section.
The longest TTL must be taken for incremental support registration, though because the TTL of both RRsets is 3600, it does not matter in this case.

With DNSSEC signed zones, support is apparent with all referral responses.
With unsigned zones, support is apparent only from referral responses for which an incremental delegation exists, unless the zone has the Resource Record `*._deleg IN IDELEG 0 .` provisioned (see {{extra-optimized (Extra optimized implementation)}}).

If the resolver knows that the authoritative name server supports incremental deleg, *and* a DNSSEC signed zone is being served, then all referrals SHOULD contain either an incremental delegation, or NSEC(3) records showing that the delegation does not exist.

> If a referral is returned that does not contain an incremental delegation nor an indication that it does not exist, then the resolver MAY register that authoritative server does not support incremental deleg and MUST send an additional incremental deleg query to find the incremental delegation (or denial of its existence).

Author: I have added this text to mention deregistration of auth support by the resolver. Can you re-review @Philip-NLnetLabs and approve if you do approve?

Reviewer: Yes, that looks good.
